Hi everyone.
This is Python Exceptions part two.
Let's start by the else keyword.
You can use the else keyword to define a block of code to be executed.
If no errors were raised here in the try block, we just print.
Hello, there is no exception.
The block else will be executed and the output will be nothing went wrong.
Second, the keyword.
Finally the finally block, if specified, will be executed regardless if the try block raises an error
or not.
Finally will be always executed.
The output here will be the try, except is finished.
The finally block can be useful to close objects and clean up resources here.
In the second example, we open our file to start writing inside the file in the block.
Finally, we close our resources.
In this case, the program can continue without leaving the file object.
Open.
Third.
Raise an exception.
As a Python developer, you can choose to throw an exception if a condition occurs to throw or raise
an exception.
Use the raise keyword here in this example.
Raise an error and stop the program if x is lower than zero.
This is the if statement.
If x less than zero raise exception.
Sorry, no numbers below zero.
The raise keyword is used to raise an exception, and you can define what kind of error to raise and
the text to print to the user.
Let's go to PyCharm and execute each of this example.
Let's start by the first section.
Else in the try block we just print the string.
Hello.
There is no exception.
And we see that when we don't have any exception the else block will execute.
The output is the print of the string hello and also the block, else nothing went wrong.
For the second section keyword.
Finally, here in this example, x is not defined.
Python will throw an exception.
The output will be something went wrong and also the try accept is finished.
Something went wrong.
And also the try accept is finished.
Let's define the variable x.
X equal ten for example.
We execute the code again.
In this case we don't have any exception.
We will print the variable x.
The output is ten.
The execution of the try block and also the finally block executed.
The try accept is finished.
We can use the finally block to close our resources.
When we add the F.close in the final block, we are sure that the file will close it.
If there are exceptions or not.
But for example, if we change, we add the F.close in the try block.
In case of exception, the file remain open.
Third, raise an exception.
The raise keyword is used to raise an exception.
Here we define an exception.
When x is less than zero, raise exception.
Sorry, no number is below zero.
Let's execute the code.
Exception.
Sorry, no numbers below zero.
In the second example, we raise a type of error if x is not an integer x.
Has the type string.
Python in this case will throw an error.
Only integers are allowed.
Type error.
Let's do a small recap for this chapter.
Else executed only when there is no exception.
Second, finally will be executed regardless if the try block raises an error or not.
Third, raise an exception and we can specify what kind of error to raise and the text to print to the
user.
That's it for this video.